%, 1800-266-7055 
r, support@spartanpoker.com 
in 0 f 
IntSPARTAN GAMES 
POKER GUIDE POKER GAMES ■ SPARTAN POKER CALENDAR ■ MORE ■ 
DOWNLOAD APP 
INSTANT PLAY 

Home / Poker Guide / Poker Rules / Blinds 
Why do you play a game of poker? To win and get some money, right? If you don't have any money in the pot, will you continue to play even if you have not got a very strong hand? The chances are pretty less. In fact, that's the case with most poker players — unless there is some-thing to gain, they won't be willing to take a chance. This would make the game... 
READ MORE 
A blind in poker is an amount of money which certain players are forced to put into the pot before the actual round of bet-ting begins. In general, there are two blinds (small and big), but there can be zero blinds as well as three blinds. Once the cards are dealt by the dealer, the player seated immediately left to the dealer (having the poker button or dealer button) has to place the 'small blind'. The player who is seated immediately next to the small blind player on the table has to place the big blind. 
These types of blinds exist in poker to bring in some cost for players to take part in the game. In order to compensate for these costs, the players get tempted to enter into pots and try and recover. This behaviour of the players makes poker games more competitive and interesting, especially in case of popular poker games like Texas Hold'em and Omaha Poker, where no 'antes' (fixed set amount contributed by every player) are involved. Such games permit you to fold your hands even without placing a bet. The introduction of poker blinds gives an initial boost to the pot used for your poker game. 
How does the betting work after blinds are placed? 
In the first betting round, the first betting opportunity is provided to the player who is seated left of the big blind, as the blinds placed by the initial two players to the left of the dealer are considered as their bets (even though they are forced bets). In the next betting round, the first betting opportunity will be provided to the first active player who is seated to the left of the dealer. He can fold his cards, or call (by matching the amount for the big blind's bet) or raise (by increasing the bet above the big bet). There are various poker blind rules that come into play as you happen to play different poker game variants. 
Small Blind in Poker 
What will be the small blind bet for the first time before the betting round begins? 
For a Limit game, the small blind bet will be equal to half of the minimum bet, which is the lower one of the two limits. So, for a limit game of $4/$8, the small blind bet will be $2. 
For a No-limit game of $4/$8, the small blind bet will be 04. 
What if there is no raise on the table till the chance of the player who made the small blind bet? 
Big Blind in Poker 
What will be the big blind bet for the first time before the betting round begins? 
game in big blind poker, the bet will be equal to double of the small blind bet. So, for a limit game of 04/$8, the big ba gLimit  blind bmet will be $4. 
For a No-limit game of 04/$8 in big blind poker, the bet will be $8. 
What if there is no raise on the table till the chance of the player who made the big blind bet? 
What if there is a raise on the table before the chance of the player who placed the big blind bet? 
Poker Blind Rules for Cash Games and Tournaments 
• Poker Blinds in Cash Games 
As discussed earlier, the blinds help to increase the size of the pot in case of cash games. The amount for the blind bets are usually fixed for every table and are not allowed to change during the duration of the poker game. But, you can mutual-ly decide and agree with all the players on the table before the game — in case you wish to have varied amounts... 
READ MORE 
• Poker Blinds in Tournaments 
While one of the purpose of poker blinds in tournaments is the same as that for cash games (to increase the pot size and encourage players to continue playing the hand and not fold quickly), there is an additional purpose of blinds for poker tournaments. This purpose is to put a limit on the duration for which the tournament may last. This is achieved... 
65=2.5 
Related Links 
0 Pre-tflop 0 Flop 0 Turn 0 River 0 Betting Limits 0 Showdown 
1 
2 
© Copyright 2020 Spartanpokercom all rights reserved. 